# 2024

**Jan. - Feb.**

Worked at Samsung until the end of February.

**Mar. - Dec.**

Started at Opera Software on March 18. At Opera, I worked in the Mobile Services team that delivers backend infrastructure mainly for Opera Mini and Opera for Android mobile apps. That team maintains many services, all of which include monitoring/alerting infrastructure. Since some parts of it are under SOX, I probably can't write much about what exactly I do there.

But, on a daily basis, we work with Python/Django for two CMS, Go for web APIs, and Vue for one larger frontend project we maintain.

Opera has such a cool in-house setup that I really love. We have our own OpenStack data centers in Europe, the USA, and Asia. Custom CA authorities, a team responsible for company-wide Kubernetes (K8s), required U2F keys, and good and reasonable security standards (this is quite different from what I saw at Samsung), along with many custom tools and software.

**Some highlights for that year:**

– Django and Python

– A lot of (quite difficult) Go writing, notification-sending system based on Temporal

– Avro logs for BQ usage, one of the key points is how not to lose them

– OpenTofu adoption instead of Terraform and CI/CD for it

– Kubernetes!!! PostgreSQL operators, Helm, and more Helm, CI/CD again, Vault for secrets, migrations from VM to K8s

– A lot, a lot of Ansible, networking, OpenStack for some older projects, Debian upgrades

– Grafana and the whole stack alongside (Prometheus/Blackbox Exporter/PostgreSQL database, etc.) migration

– Two marathons: one in Kraków in April and the other in December in Valencia.
